"list"
******

* Description

* Usage

* Required Parameters

* Optional Parameters

* Global Parameters

* Example using required parameter


Description
===========

Retrieves details of all the applications associated with the
specified source. This list is generated dynamically by interrogating
the source and the list changes as applications are started or stopped
in the source environment.


Usage
=====

   oci application-migration source-application list [OPTIONS]


Required Parameters
===================

--compartment-id, -c [text]

The OCID of a compartment. Retrieves details of objects in the
specified compartment.

--source-id [text]

The OCID of the source.


Optional Parameters
===================

--all

Fetches all pages of results. If you provide this option, then you
cannot provide the "--limit" option.

--display-name [text]

Resource name on which to query.

--from-json [text]

Provide input to this command as a JSON document from a file using the
file://path-to/file syntax.

The "--generate-full-command-json-input" option can be used to
generate a sample json file to be used with this command option. The
key names are pre-populated and match the command option names
(converted to camelCase format, e.g. compartment-id –> compartmentId),
while the values of the keys need to be populated by the user before
using the sample file as an input to this command. For any command
option that accepts multiple values, the value of the key can be a
JSON array.

Options can still be provided on the command line. If an option exists
in both the JSON document and the command line then the command line
specified value will be used.

For examples on usage of this option, please see our “using CLI with
advanced JSON options” link: https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Conte
nt/API/SDKDocs/cliusing.htm#AdvancedJSONOptions

--limit [integer]

The number of items returned in a paginated *List* call. For
information about pagination, see List Pagination.

--page [text]

The value of the *opc-next-page* response header from the preceding
*List* call. For information about pagination, see List Pagination.

--page-size [integer]

When fetching results, the number of results to fetch per call. Only
valid when used with "--all" or "--limit", and ignored otherwise.

--sort-by [text]

Specifies the field on which to sort. By default, *TIMECREATED* is
ordered descending. By default, *DISPLAYNAME* is ordered ascending.
Note that you can sort only on one field.

Accepted values are:

   DISPLAYNAME, TIMECREATED

--sort-order [text]

The sort order, either *ASC* (ascending) or *DESC* (descending).

Accepted values are:

   ASC, DESC


Global Parameters
=================

Use "oci --help" for help on global parameters.

"--auth-purpose", "--auth", "--cert-bundle", "--cli-auto-prompt", "--
cli-rc-file", "--config-file", "--connection-timeout", "--debug", "--
defaults-file", "--endpoint", "--generate-full-command-json-input", "
--generate-param-json-input", "--help", "--latest-version", "--max-
retries", "--no-retry", "--opc-client-request-id", "--opc-request-id",
"--output", "--profile", "--proxy", "--query", "--raw-output", "--
read-timeout", "--realm-specific-endpoint", "--region", "--release-
info", "--request-id", "--version", "-?", "-d", "-h", "-i", "-v"


Example using required parameter
================================

Copy and paste the following example into a JSON file, replacing the
example parameters with your own.

       oci application-migration source create --generate-param-json-input source-details > source-details.json

Copy the following CLI commands into a file named example.sh. Run the
command by typing “bash example.sh” and replacing the example
parameters with your own.

Please note this sample will only work in the POSIX-compliant bash-
like shell. You need to set up the OCI configuration and appropriate
security policies before trying the examples.

       export compartment_id=<substitute-value-of-compartment_id> # https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/tools/oci-cli/latest/oci_cli_docs/cmdref/application-migration/source/create.html#cmdoption-compartment-id

       source_id=$(oci application-migration source create --compartment-id $compartment_id --source-details file://source-details.json --query data.id --raw-output)

       oci application-migration source-application list --compartment-id $compartment_id --source-id $source_id
