"migrate-application"
*********************

* Description

* Usage

* Required Parameters

* Optional Parameters

* Global Parameters

* Example using required parameter


Description
===========

Starts migrating the specified application to Oracle Cloud
Infrastructure.

Before sending this request, ensure that you have provided
configuration details to update the migration and the state of the
migration is <code>READY</code>.

After you send this request, the migration’s state will temporarily be
<code>MIGRATING</code>.

To track the progress of the operation, you can monitor the status of
the Migrate Application work request by using the
<code>`GetWorkRequest <https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/tools
/oci-cli/latest/oci_cli_docs/cmdref/application-migration/work-
request/get.html>`__</code> REST API operation on the work request or
by viewing the status of the work request in the console. When this
work request is processed successfully, Application Migration creates
the required resources in the target environment and the state of the
migration changes to <code>MIGRATION_SUCCEEDED</code>.


Usage
=====

   oci application-migration migration migrate-application [OPTIONS]


Required Parameters
===================

--migration-id [text]

The OCID of the migration.


Optional Parameters
===================

--from-json [text]

Provide input to this command as a JSON document from a file using the
file://path-to/file syntax.

The "--generate-full-command-json-input" option can be used to
generate a sample json file to be used with this command option. The
key names are pre-populated and match the command option names
(converted to camelCase format, e.g. compartment-id –> compartmentId),
while the values of the keys need to be populated by the user before
using the sample file as an input to this command. For any command
option that accepts multiple values, the value of the key can be a
JSON array.

Options can still be provided on the command line. If an option exists
in both the JSON document and the command line then the command line
specified value will be used.

For examples on usage of this option, please see our “using CLI with
advanced JSON options” link: https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/iaas/Conte
nt/API/SDKDocs/cliusing.htm#AdvancedJSONOptions

--if-match [text]

For optimistic concurrency control. In the *PUT* or *DELETE* call for
a resource, set the *if-match* parameter to the value of the etag from
a previous *GET* or *POST* response for that resource. The resource
will be updated or deleted only if the etag you provide matches the
resource’s current etag value.

--max-wait-seconds [integer]

The maximum time to wait for the work request to reach the state
defined by "--wait-for-state". Defaults to 1200 seconds.

--wait-for-state [text]

This operation asynchronously creates, modifies or deletes a resource
and uses a work request to track the progress of the operation.
Specify this option to perform the action and then wait until the work
request reaches a certain state. Multiple states can be specified,
returning on the first state. For example, "--wait-for-state"
SUCCEEDED "--wait-for-state" FAILED would return on whichever
lifecycle state is reached first. If timeout is reached, a return code
of 2 is returned. For any other error, a return code of 1 is returned.

Accepted values are:

   ACCEPTED, CANCELED, CANCELING, FAILED, IN_PROGRESS, SUCCEEDED

--wait-interval-seconds [integer]

Check every "--wait-interval-seconds" to see whether the work request
has reached the state defined by "--wait-for-state". Defaults to 30
seconds.


Global Parameters
=================

Use "oci --help" for help on global parameters.

"--auth-purpose", "--auth", "--cert-bundle", "--cli-auto-prompt", "--
cli-rc-file", "--config-file", "--connection-timeout", "--debug", "--
defaults-file", "--endpoint", "--generate-full-command-json-input", "
--generate-param-json-input", "--help", "--latest-version", "--max-
retries", "--no-retry", "--opc-client-request-id", "--opc-request-id",
"--output", "--profile", "--proxy", "--query", "--raw-output", "--
read-timeout", "--realm-specific-endpoint", "--region", "--release-
info", "--request-id", "--version", "-?", "-d", "-h", "-i", "-v"


Example using required parameter
================================

Copy and paste the following example into a JSON file, replacing the
example parameters with your own.

       oci application-migration source create --generate-param-json-input source-details > source-details.json

       oci application-migration migration create --generate-param-json-input discovery-details > discovery-details.json

Copy the following CLI commands into a file named example.sh. Run the
command by typing “bash example.sh” and replacing the example
parameters with your own.

Please note this sample will only work in the POSIX-compliant bash-
like shell. You need to set up the OCI configuration and appropriate
security policies before trying the examples.

       export compartment_id=<substitute-value-of-compartment_id> # https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/tools/oci-cli/latest/oci_cli_docs/cmdref/application-migration/source/create.html#cmdoption-compartment-id
       export application_name=<substitute-value-of-application_name> # https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/tools/oci-cli/latest/oci_cli_docs/cmdref/application-migration/migration/create.html#cmdoption-application-name

       source_id=$(oci application-migration source create --compartment-id $compartment_id --source-details file://source-details.json --query data.id --raw-output)

       migration_id=$(oci application-migration migration create --application-name $application_name --compartment-id $compartment_id --discovery-details file://discovery-details.json --source-id $source_id --query data.id --raw-output)

       oci application-migration migration migrate-application --migration-id $migration_id
