.TH BIDSCOINER "1" "2024\-03\-29" "bidscoin 4.3.2" "Generated Python Manual"
.SH NAME
bidscoiner
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bidscoiner
[-h] [-p PARTICIPANT_LABEL [PARTICIPANT_LABEL ...]] [-b BIDSMAP] [-f] [-c] [-n NATIVESPEC] sourcefolder bidsfolder
.SH DESCRIPTION
Converts ("coins") your source datasets to NIfTI/json/tsv BIDS datasets using the mapping
information from the bidsmap.yaml file. Edit this bidsmap to your needs using the bidseditor
tool before running this function or (re\-)run the bidsmapper whenever you encounter unexpected
data. You can run bidscoiner after all data has been collected, or run / re\-run it whenever
new data has been added to your source folder (presuming the scan protocol has not changed).
Also, if you delete a subject/session folder from the bidsfolder, it will simply be re\-created
from the sourcefolder the next time you run the bidscoiner.

The bidscoiner uses plugins, as stored in the bidsmap['Options'], to do the actual work

Provenance information, warnings and error messages are stored in the
bidsfolder/code/bidscoin/bidscoiner.log file.

.TP
\fBsourcefolder\fR
The study root folder containing the raw source data

.TP
\fBbidsfolder\fR
The destination / output folder with the bids data

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-p\fR \fI\,PARTICIPANT_LABEL [PARTICIPANT_LABEL ...]\/\fR, \fB\-\-participant_label\fR \fI\,PARTICIPANT_LABEL [PARTICIPANT_LABEL ...]\/\fR
Space separated list of selected sub\-# names / folders to be processed (the sub\-prefix can be removed). Otherwise all subjects in the sourcefolder will be selected

.TP
\fB\-b\fR \fI\,BIDSMAP\/\fR, \fB\-\-bidsmap\fR \fI\,BIDSMAP\/\fR
The study bidsmap file with the mapping heuristics. If the bidsmap filename is just the basename (i.e. no "/" in the name) then it is assumed to be located in the current directory or in bidsfolder/code/bidscoin. Default: bidsmap.yaml

.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-force\fR
Process all subjects, regardless of existing subject folders in the bidsfolder. Otherwise these subject folders will be skipped

.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-cluster\fR
Use the DRMAA library to submit the bidscoiner jobs to a high\-performance compute (HPC) cluster

.TP
\fB\-n\fR \fI\,NATIVESPEC\/\fR, \fB\-\-nativespec\fR \fI\,NATIVESPEC\/\fR
Opaque DRMAA argument with native specifications for submitting bidscoiner jobs to the HPC cluster. NB: Use quotes and include at least one space character to prevent premature parsing (default: \-l walltime=00:30:00,mem=4gb)

.SH COMMENTS
examples:
  bidscoiner myproject/raw myproject/bids
  bidscoiner \-f myproject/raw myproject/bids \-p sub\-009 sub\-030
  bidscoiner \-f myproject/raw myproject/bids \-c \-n "\-\-time=00:30:00 \-\-mem=4000"
 

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Marcel Zwiers <m.zwiers@donders.ru.nl>
.fi
